to create parent directory,with nested folder inside parent directory we use,
mkdir -p parent/child/grandchild folder names

to recursively add multiples files to staging we use,
git add .

add,commit,pull( to take pull from branch if any other team member had pushed their code) and push


we have added files to staging but if we want to remove a file from staging back to working directory then we use git status to know what next,
git reset HEAD filename ## Unstages the changes for a specific file

if we need to go back to previous commit ie discarding recently made changes needs to be discareded then use git status to know what next,
(to discard chnages in working directory)
git checkout -- filename # Reverts the changes for a specific file to the last committed state

moving within directory:
to rename filename in git,
git mv currentfilename newfilename (git level changing)-- git understands renaming is done

os level to rename without git, so it is bash command
mv currentfilename new filename----here git understands as old file is deleted and new file is added

git add -A (add all changes(renamed,moved files etc) to staging area)

moving outside directory
git mv currentfilename path(directoryname)

deleting files in git:
to delete files which are not in staging ie not tracked by git yet
git rm filename.extension gives error as this filename is not yet staged,so we need to use bash command ie
rm filename

mkdir -p parent/child/grandchild creates directories

git add -A: Stages all changes in the repository (modifications, new files, and deletions).

git add .: Stages changes in the current directory and its subdirectories (modifications and new files, but not deletions).


git alias::

global alias:
git config --global alias.aliasname 'gitcommand'

ex: git config --global alias.co 'checkout'

above command can be accessed as git co

local alias:
git config alais.aliasname 'gitcommand'

git ignorne(ignoring unwanted files):
in order to avoid unwanted files we need to check if .gitignore file is avaiable in working directory or not.
if not create .gitignore
--add 1 expression per line.it can be:
1. specific file: myfile.extension
2. file pattern: *.extension
3.folder: myfolder/


--lets say we log files multiple to exclude them in .gitignore file we can use *.log
-- or we can store log files inside log folder and ignore that folder completely by specifying log folder in .gitignore


git diff without any paramter gives difference between working directory and staging area.(This command shows the changes that have been made but not yet staged for commit.)
git diff --staged To compare the staging area with the last commit, use:
(This command displays the changes that have been staged but not yet committed.)

git diff HEAD: This command shows the differences between your working directory (uncommitted changes) and the last commit or local repo(HEAD).

git diff --staged HEAD--- shows in staging area but not commited ie local repo

to limit to show differrnces in only one file then,
git diff -- filename/path

difference between current and last commit
first need to get commit log ie git log --oneline 
then git diff commit1 commit2

---to find differrnces b/w 2 branches

git diff master  origin/master
local rep         remote repo
master(HEAD)      origin/master(github)

create new branch
git branch branchname
git checkout branchname
git branch -a to lit all branches
git log --oneline --decorate -- to get logs in oneline and decorate means giving info about branch and its tags
renaming branchnames: git branch -m oldfilename newfilename

delete a branch: git branch -d branchname

to delete branch from git command line:
git push -d origin branchnametodelete

creating and checking out to branch at a time in acommand
git checkout -b branchname

being in main branch,
git diff main feature2
it shows changes in feature3 branch compared to main branch.

git merge branchname---
if we r in feature2 branch,it will merge changes into branchname mentioned

git merge branchname does the fastforward merge 
meaning that only information about last commit of branchname will be mentioned.

git merge branchname --no-ff meaning that along witb last commit of branchname and merge commit of branchanme is also maintained with commit.

lets say we r in main branch---automatically merge 
git merge using recursive strategy(recently it named as ort strategy):
ort -- Ostensibly Recursive’s Twin":
git merge branchname -m "message" meaning that recursively merge happens with changes commkted in main and new branch 
automatically the merge commit happens with commit message.
when our branch has changes(simple-changes)branch and some other developer make chnages in the branch we prefer to merge(main) 
then automatic merge happens

for merge conflicts,mergetool p4merge is better 3way merge tool

REBASE topic:
...
adding few more content

REBASING:
pushing changes made in main to new branch(feature) created from main known as rebase 

to stop/abort rebase: git rebase --abort
to continue the rebase from where it stopped: git rebase --continue

just like merge conflicts we need to resolve rebase conflicts

pull with rebase:
when locally changes are made in main branch and later we stage and commit them
again some other developer have made changes to main in github.if we need to just see what changes are in github main,
we use git fetch origin main doesnt perform merge unlike git pull.
later to pull and rebase main,we use
git pull --rebase origin main

command to check if both local and remote changes are there.
git log --oneline --graph --decorate

When to Use git fetch:
When you want to see what changes have been made in the remote repository without affecting your current work.

Before making a git pull to see the incoming changes.

To update your tracking branches.

Command	               Action	                                                            Result
git pull	         Fetches and merges changes	                        May create merge commits
git pull --rebase	Fetches and rebases changes      	         Linear commit history, no merge commits
git fetch	        Fetches changes only                    	         No changes to current branch, safe inspection
git rebase	       Reapplies commits on top of another base commit	      Linear commit history, possible conflicts to resolve

git pull: When you want to quickly update your local branch with remote changes and don't mind having merge commits.

git pull --rebase: When you prefer a clean, linear commit history and are comfortable handling potential conflicts.

git fetch: When you want to see what changes are available in the remote repository before deciding to merge or rebase.

git rebase: When you want to keep your feature branch up to date with the main branch without creating merge commits.

stashing
-- if we r working on fe changes,but not complted and need to move on working on some other feature we use, which has not be staged and commited into local repo.
git stash which automatically intern use save
--if we again have to go back to stashed file use,
git stash apply--which puts back staged files into yet to staged and commited


